# Microtask 0

`Q 0 Review JOSS documentation on submission and review and see how it is related to the current workflow.`

**Overview**
The Journal of Open Source Software is mature in comparison to the D&I Badging process. By drawing parallels between the two workflows, we hopefully are then able to make improvements to the current D&I workflow.

**Listed below is a summary of findings I made from going through JOSS’ documentation:**

- The definition, intentions, scope and outcome of JOSS review processes are clearly and well-articulated at the very beginning of the documentation.

  - Definition:
    > The Journal of Open Source Software (JOSS) is a developer-friendly journal for research software packages.
  - Description of the review process:
    > Formal peer review
  - Intentions :
    > Improve the quality of software submitted
  - Outcome of a successful application:
    > We mint a CrossRef DOI for your paper and we list it on the JOSS website.
  - Scope:
    > Research software packages in the form of research papers

- The guide is split up into sections for different participants as defined the roles they play in the workflow i.e reviewer and author guides, editorial guides etc. There is also provision for search in the documentation.

- The environment where all processes will be carried out is well outlined: All review and submission processes carried out in the open on the **Github issue tracker**.

- The docs offer information on guiding principles and ethics that regulate the submission and review workflow.

- It's interesting to mention JOSS editors manage review workflow with the help of a GitHub **at** whedon. The bot automates mundane tasks like fetching data ie editors, review checking the status of reviews etc

`Reviewer and author guides`
These are further divided into different sub-sections arranged in the natural order of the workflow. Find listed below a brief description of each sub-section.

- Outline of submission requirements:
  - In list form potential authors are informed of the minimum submission requirements they have to ensure their work meets in-order to ensure a successful review these include information on licensing etc
  - An example of a paper that meets the outlined requirements is then provided
- Description of the review process
- Outline the requirements for reviewing for JOSS: this section provides information for reviewers
- Review checklist: this section provides a checklist for potential authors.

`Editorial guides`
This section offers guidelines for the editors. These participants are responsible for the smooth flow of the whole submission and review process.

**Conclusion**
The D&I Badging current flow is outlined in this [link](https://github.com/badging/project-diversity-and-inclusion).The most noticeable differences are:

- The targeted audience in the D&I documentation seems to be `project owners` or `event planners` only. There is little or no detail about other participants in the submission and review process.
- In addition to that there is no information provided about the minimum requirements for making a submission nor is an example of a successful project or event provided i.e one that meets minimum requirements.
- Furthermore no bots are integrated into the workflow suggesting that the current workflow is mainly manual.
- One other point I noticed is that the docs are written as one big blob there is no navigation nor provision for search.
- Finally JOSS's docs well articulate that the whole process will be carried out in an open and transparent manner. I think it would well benefit the D&I Badging docs to define the ethics and principles behind the whole submission and review process.
