# Microtask 0

`Q 1 Review the Core Infrastructure Initiative self-report badging system on projects and events and report schematic differences.`

**A brief overview of  Linux Foundation (LF) Core Infrastructure Initiative (CII) Best Practices Badge Program workflow**
- It provides a way for Free/Libre and Open Source (FLOSS) projects to show that they follow a set of best practices found in this [link](https://github.com/coreinfrastructure/best-practices-badge/blob/master/doc/criteria.md)
    * `Best Practices for FLOSS`: these are divided into sub-sections described below:
        * Introduction: This section offers a general overview of the Best Practices of FLOSS criteria
        * Terminology: this section provides definitions for terms used to describe the entity being evaluated which in this case is _projects_.
        * Current criteria: In this section the criteria used in CII is then outlined
- Projects which follow these practices can then self certify and get a Core Infrastructure Initiative (CII) Badge
- the applicants then use BadgeApp to submit an application for a CII Badge. The BadgeApp is a web application found on this [link](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/en/projects/1#changecontrol). It is basically a multi-step form.
- 3 tier badges offered namely 'passing', 'silver' & 'gold'
- The best practices criteria and badges are updated continually each badge tagged with a release year identifier.

**Conclusion**
In comparison the **D&I Badging** program provides a means for opensource events and projects to not only put CHAOSS D&I metrics of the Project Diversity and Event Diversity focus areas into practise but they get to show communities that they are diverse and inclusive.

The schematic differences  between CII and D&I Badging program:
- Entities under evaluation
    * CII evaluates FLOSS projects to determine if they are compliant to outlined Best Practices whereas D&I Badging program evaluates open source projects and events to determine whether they put D&I metrics into practise.
* D&I Badging work flow takes place in the open on GitHub whereas CII uses a BadgeApp.
* The CII Badge has different categories not much information is available about categorizing or quantifying the D&I Badge.For example is it possible to be 70% diverse & inclusive or to have `Gold` standard in diversity and inclusion?
* The CII Best practices define FLOSS projects and associated terms which are referred to in the submission and evaluation process. It would benefit the D&I Badging program to adopt that so as to bring clarity into the workflow.
* The CII Badge is tagged with a release year and the docs give notice about continuous updates to best practices criteria whereas not much information is available about D&I Badge in that regard.


